---
layout: post
title:  "Securing Firefox"
date:   2015-06-26 12:23:00
categories: security 
---

Mozilla's Firefox web browser is a free and open source browser used by millions of people around the world, including myself. Firefox has always aimed _to protect and respect your private information_, according to [Mozilla][moz].

However, over the years through many questionable and controversial decisions made by Mozilla Firefox has become more and more bloated, and has deliberated implemented "features" that risk the safety and privacy of the user.
This blog post is about how to secure Firefox and make it safer than default. It requires access to the about:config in Firefox (accessed through the URL bar) which voids the warranty of the browser, but none of these changes have shown any documented evidence of affecting your browsing experience in a negative way.

## Google Safe Browsing ##

This feature, while sounding beneficial on paper, essentially sends a list of any website you visit to Google who keep a list of malware/unsafe websites.
The problem with this is that it means Google, a company that is involved in the NSA's PRISM surveillance program, tracks and checks the websites you visit. With a little common sense it is easy to browse the web safely without this feature enabled.

To disable, in about:config change:
<br>
```
browser.safebrowsing.enabled
browser.safebrowsing.downloads.enabled
browser.safebrowsing.malware.enabled
```

<br>
from "enabled" to "disabled"

### Firefox stats and telemetry ###

Firefox collects usage statistics, health reports and telemetry by default. While this information can be useful to Firefox developers, it should techinically be an "opt-in" feature by default. 

To disable, in about:config change:
<br>
```
datareporting.healthreport.service.enabled
datareporting.healthreport.uploadEnabled
toolkit.telemetry.enabled
```

<br>
from "enabled" to "disabled"

#### WebRTC / Firefox Hello ####

WebRTC, an experimental new in-browser audio and video technology, [leaks the real IP when using a VPN/TOR][vpn]


